feat(SOP) : Adding sops for UPS Server (#43)
aerogear/unifiedpush-operator: SOP/SOP-push.adoc

=== UnifiedPushApiHighRequestFailure

- Check <<General procedure>>

=== UnifiedPushPodCPUHigh

- Check <<General procedure>>

=== UnifiedPushJavaHeapThresholdExceeded

- Check <<General procedure>>

=== UnifiedPushJavaNonHeapThresholdExceeded

- Check <<General procedure>>

=== UnifiedPushJavaGCTimePerMinuteScavenge

- Check <<General procedure>>

== Warning

=== UnifiedPushMessagesFailures

- Check <<General procedure>>

=== UnifiedPushPodMemoryHigh

- Check <<General procedure>>

=== UnifiedPushApiHighRequestDuration

- Check <<General procedure>>

=== UnifiedPushApiHighConcurrentRequests

- Check <<General procedure>>

=== UnifiedPushJavaDeadlockedThreads,

- Check <<General procedure>>

== General procedure

. Capture a snapshot of the 'UnifiedPush Server' Grafana dashboard and track it over time. The metrics can be useful for identifying performance issues over time.

. Capture application logs for analysis.
.. Get the pod names by running `oc get pods`
.. Save the logs by running `oc logs <database-podname> > <filename>.log` for each pod

> NOTE: You are able to the the logs by the Console (OCP UI) as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: You can get the logs from the Console (OCP UI) as well.
```

Author: 👍

Author: Done here : https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/pull/44

> . If necessary, recreate the service pod to restore service.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what command a user would use here to "recreate the service pod", or under what circumstances that would be "necessary". :thinking:  The pod is created by a ReplicationController, which is created by a DeploymentConfig, which is created by the operator in response to the CR. The only thing I can think of is "delete the service pod to cause it to be recreated", but again, it's not clear under what circumstances  that the "if necessary" part applies. Thoughts?

Author: I agree with you. I will remove it.

Author: Done here : https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/pull/44

.. By default it should use the values defined in the Secret created by the operator with the database pod name.
. Check the logs of the UPS OAuth Proxy Container
.. Go to : `Applications -> Pods -> example-unifiedpushserver-<xyz123> -> Logs -> Container -> ups-oauth-proxy`
.. Check the `pod/example-unifiedpushserver-<xyz123>` events, see if was possible to pull the OAuth image.
.. Check the logs of the UPS Container
.. Go to : `Applications -> Pods -> example-unifiedpushserver-<xyz123> -> Logs -> Container -> ups`
. Check the `pod/example-unifiedpushserver-<xyz123>` events, see if was possible to pull the UnifiedPush image.
. Check the operator pod is present as it is responsible for managing the service pod as described in https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/blob/0.1.0/SOP/SOP-operator.adoc[UnifiedPushOperatorDown]
. Check if the secret was created (It cannot be checked by the UI)
. Check if the values in the secret are correct (It cannot be checked by the UI)

NOTE: If resolving the UnifiedPushOperatorDown doesn't resolve the issue, please continue with the below steps

> ==== CLI

Reviewer 2: is it really a requirement to have instructions using both `console` and `cli`? can we just stick with one of them (preferably CLI)?

Author: It is the way that @laurafitzgerald did the MSS one. 
@laurafitzgerald why you added both? Is it a requirement?

Reviewer: I would suggest using the CLI only, since the UI Console will change significantly in OpenShift 4+

Author: I do not think that these steps changed in OCP 4 at all. However, I am following as it was done and approved in other places which show attend the requirements. I think we can/should move with both them check it with @laurafitzgerald in order to know if we can keep just the CLI which indeed I am very OK with.

Author: I will remove the OCP UI actions. Also, I agree with.

. Check that the UnifiedPushServer CR is deployed in the same namespace as the operator
. Check the environment variables of the Server

> .. Run `oc describe pod/example-unifiedpushserver-<xyz123>`

Reviewer: If you want a command that doesn't need the `<xyz123>` replaced in it, you could try this: `oc describe pods -l service=ups`.

Author: 👍

.. For further information see https://github.com/aerogear/aerogear-unifiedpush-server#container-configuration.
.. Note that it will use the values mapped in the Secret created by the operator with the database pod name.
. Check the environment variables of the Database
.. Run `oc describe pod/example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-<xyz123>`
.. By default it should use the values defined in the Secret created by the operator with the database pod name.
. Check the logs of the UPS OAuth Proxy Container

> .. Get the service pod name -> `oc get pods | grep unifiedpushserver`

Reviewer: This will only have `unifiedpushserver` in the name, if `unifiedpushserver` was in the name of the CR. You can alternatively use: `oc get pods -l service=ups`

Author: 👍

> .. Run `oc logs <service-podname> -c ups-oauth-proxy`

Reviewer: Alternatively, both of these commands could be run in one, with `oc logs $(oc get po -l service=ups -o name) -c ups-oauth-proxy`

Not sure if that's preferable or not though.

.. Save the logs by running `oc logs <service-podname> -c ups-oauth-proxy > <filename>.log`

> .. Check if was possible pull the OAuth image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Check if the oauth-proxy image was pulled successfully
```

If this step is needed, maybe it should be earlier in the sequence, since if it wasn't pulled successfully then the above steps to get logs wouldn't work. Thoughts?

. Check the logs of the UPS Container
.. Run `oc logs <service-podname> -c ups`
.. Save the logs by running `oc logs <service-podname> -c ups > <filename>.log`
.. See the `pod/example-unifiedpushserver-<xyz123>` logs.

> .. See if was possible to pull the UnifiedPush image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Check if the UnifiedPush image was pulled successfully.
```

. Check the operator pod is present as it is responsible for managing the service pod as described in https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/blob/0.1.0/SOP/SOP-operator.adoc[UnifiedPushOperatorDown]
. Check if the secret was created
.. Go to the namespace of the operator
.. Run `oc get secrets`
. Check if the values in the secret are correct.

> .. Run `oc edit secret`

Reviewer: This would give the values in the secret more succinctly (I presume the postgresql secret is the one being referred to here, please correct me if I'm wrong):

```
for field in POSTGRES_{DATABASE,HOST,USERNAME,PASSWORD,SUPERUSER,VERSION}; do printf "${field}: " && oc get secret <CR Name>-postgresql -o jsonpath="{.data.$field}" | base64 -d && echo; done
```

But even with that, it's not clear to me how a user would even know if those values are correct. Those values are all produced from within the operator, and they're used to both configure the database and to populate the env vars in UPS to be able to connect to the database (and similarly for the backup pods). Should people just check if they exist? Or should there be more steps to try to connect to the database with these details?

Author: Done 👍

=== UnifiedPushDatabaseDown

Troubleshoot using the following steps via either the console or the cli:

==== Console

. Check that the Database Pod is deployed in the same namespace as the operator
. Check the environment variables of the Database
.. Go to : `Applications -> Pods -> example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-<xyz123> -> Environment Variables`
.. By default it should use the values defined in the Secret created by the operator with the database pod name.
. Check the pod logs
.. Navigate to `Applications -> Pods -> example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-<xyz123> -> Logs
. Check the `pod/example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-<xyz123>` events
.. See if was possible to pull the Database image.
. Check the operator pod is present as it is responsible for managing the service pod as described in https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/blob/0.1.0/SOP/SOP-operator.adoc[UnifiedPushOperatorDown]

> ==== CLI`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== CLI
```

Author: Done 👍

. Check that the Database Pod is deployed in the same namespace as the operator

> .. Run `oc describe pod/example-unifiedpushserver-postgresq-<xyz123>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Run `oc describe pod/example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-<xyz123>`
```

Author: done 👍

.. By default it should use the values defined in the Secret created by the operator with the database pod name.
. Check the pod logs

> .. Get the service pod name -> `oc get pods | grep unifiedpushserver-postgresq`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Get the service pod name -> `oc get pods | grep unifiedpushserver-postgresql`
```

Like in the other examples, this will only have `unifiedpushserver` in the name, if the CR name had `unifiedpushserver` in it

.. `oc logs <database-podname>`
.. Save the logs by running `oc logs <database-podname> > <filename>.log`

> . Check the `pod/example-unifiedpushserver-postgresq-<xyz123>` logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the `pod/example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-<xyz123>` logs
```

.. See if was possible to pull the Database image.

> . Check the operator pod is present as it is responsible for managing the service pod as described in https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/blob/0.1.0/SOP/SOP-operator.adoc[UnifiedPushOperatorDown]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the operator pod is present as it is responsible for creating the service DeploymentConfig, which creates a ReplicationController that manages the Pods as described in https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/blob/0.1.0/SOP/SOP-operator.adoc[UnifiedPushOperatorDown]
```

Maybe this one is a bit too pedantic :wink:

. If necessary, recreate the service pod to restore service.
.. Navigate to `Application -> Pods -> example-unifiedpushserver-<xyz123> -> Actions -> Delete -> Delete`
.. Navigate to `Application -> Pods -> example-unifiedpushserver-postgresq-<xyz123> -> Actions -> Delete -> Delete`
. Check the operator pod is present as it is responsible for managing the service pod as described in https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator/blob/0.1.0/SOP/SOP-operator.adoc[UnifiedPushOperatorDown]

== CLI:

. Capture application logs for analysis.
.. Capture the logs of the UPS Container
... Get the service pod name -> `oc get pods | grep unifiedpushserver`
... Run `oc logs <service-podname> -c ups`
... Save the logs by running `oc logs <service-podname> -c ups > <filename>.log`
.. Capture the logs of the UPS OAuth Proxy Container
... Get the service pod name -> `oc get pods | grep unifiedpushserver`
... Run `oc logs <service-podname> -c ups-oauth-proxy`
... Save the logs by running `oc logs <service-podname> -c ups-oauth-proxy > <filename>.log`
.. Capture the logs of the UPS Database

> ... Get the service pod name -> `oc get pods | grep unifiedpushserver-postgresq`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... Get the PostgreSQL pod name -> `oc get pods | grep unifiedpushserver-postgresql`
```

> ... Run `oc logs <service-podname> -c unifiedpushserver-postgresq`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... Run `oc logs <database-podname>`
```

> ... Save the logs by running `oc logs <service-podname> -c unifiedpushserver-postgresq > <filename>.log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... Save the logs by running `oc logs <postgresql-podname> > <filename>.log
```

> . If necessary, recreate the service pod to restore service.

Reviewer 2: if it's performance issue, we should be able to increase the number of UPS pods?

Reviewer 2: Also for possible performance issues, we should:

1. Check the performance of the database pod (CPU, memory usage) and logs to see if the database is under any pressure.
2. Check the number of pending messages on the queue (is it too high?) Are we seeing the number of pending messages keep growing?
3. Is UPS server itself is under pressure? If so try scale ups itself by increasing the number of pods.

Author: I added a few points/questions in the above comment

Author: @wei-lee @grdryn explained that is not possible to scale.

Reviewer 2: it will be possible to scale UPS very soon.

Author: So, when it be possible we should change here or would you like that I added steps to change the size spec in the CR besides it do not exist yet? @wei-lee @grdryn
